Motivation is a powerful, yet tricky beast. Sometimes it is really easy to get motivated, and you find yourself
wrapped up in a whirlwind of excitement. Other times, it is nearly impossible to figure out how to motivate
yourself and you’re trapped in a death spiral of procrastination. This page contains the best ideas and most
useful research on how to get and stay motivated.

This isn’t going to be some rah-rah, pumped-up motivational speech. (That’s not my style.) Instead, we’re going
to break down the science behind how to get motivated in the first place and how to stay motivated for the long-run.
Whether you’re trying to figure out how to motivate yourself or how to motivate a team, this page should cover
everything you need to know.

You can click the links below to jump to a particular section or simply scroll down to read everything. At the end
of this page, you’ll find a complete list of all the articles I have written on motivation.

So what is motivation, exactly? The author Steven Pressfield has a great line in his book, The War of Art, which
I think gets at the core of motivation. To paraphrase Pressfield, “At some point, the pain of not doing it becomes
greater than the pain of doing it.”

In other words, at some point, it is easier to change than to stay the same. It is easier to take action and feel
insecure at the gym than to sit still and experience self-loathing on the couch. It is easier to feel awkward while
making the sales call than to feel disappointed about your dwindling bank account.

This, I think, is the essence of motivation. Every choice has a price, but when we are motivated, it is easier to
bear the inconvenience of action than the pain of remaining the same. Somehow we cross a mental threshold—usually
after weeks of procrastination and in the face of an impending deadline—and it becomes more painful to not do the
work than to actually do it.

Now for the important question: What can we do to make it more likely that we cross this mental threshold and feel
motivated on a consistent basis?